ner is a medical student at the Islamic
University of Gaza she's originally from
Rafa n left earlier this month and she
went to Egypt she's joining us from
there thank you very much indeed for
being with us can you describe to us
what things were like when you were
working before you decided to
leave yeah thank you um for having me
yes so uh as a medical student whose uh
med school got bombed whose education
was interrupted I just um found I don't
know like the best decision for me to do
is really just like to go and volunteer
at hospitals and the thing is like life
in Gaza currently and for the past 7 to
eight months um the problem there is
that you never know what the right thing
or the wrong thing to do if you want to
like stay alive or survive or if you
want to be safe right like for example
me going I started to volunteering at
Nar Hospital in ra and that hospital is
like around um about 20 minute walk from
my house so I used to walk there and
going there like on my way there like
you you wouldn't you you couldn't know
if it would be safe for me to walk there
and obviously i' be walking because
there's no gas and no fuel for cars like
to find transportations the best uh
thing to find would be like an you know
hopping on an animal car and that
wouldn't be always available and like a
lot of people find it funny me like
wearing scrubs and uh you know like
writing on them and get to the hospital
but most of the time I'll be walking and
on my route from my house to the
hospital there's so many houses and
places that got bombed and that's the
thing like they were bombed just not at
the time I was walking by but if they
did like if they were bombed when I was
walking by I wouldn't I wouldn't be
alive now that's the thing you know like
um everywhere is risky um there's no
place that you could you know you could
look at and be like yeah okay I can be
here and be safe you know and then when
I get to Anar well that's a hospital un
like proven by what what's been
happening for the past seven to eight
months hospitals themselves are even
could be even considered even more risky
than other places so yeah so I get there
um I start volunteering at the emergency
department and the ortho emergency
department I I personally used to deal
with um at least 100 patients per shift
like we used to work on um I used to
work in 24hour shifts and because
especially at the time because like
everybody was asked to move to the South
and especially to ra and I think about
ra I'm originally from RAF the thing
about RAF just before October happened
we were always like for years now we're
always you know like protesting and
calling for um a building of a hospital
in RAF so RAF does not technically does
not really have a hospital like not like
shif or n any of the like the big kind
of bigger kind of medical complexes that
we have in other cities ra never really
had a hospital and that was like one of
the problems I could be intentional of
asking people to move the South because
Gaza City has more infrastructure more
more institutes more hospitals more
equipment more of kind of everything and
asking people to go to the South is um
really getting them to places where
they're all already you know like less
resources and all that so the UN
hospital is really small but we had to
deal with so many cases all the time you
know like really just like starting with
infections as simple as upper
respiratory infections and U you know
gastritis and like some gastric
infections and also casualties from uh
the bombings as well and we were always
like working you know on the floor and
um there has always been limitations on
everything I studied the at school Pro
years I did not study for so long but I
learned some things and what what I was
experiencing and what I was working at
the hospital was so different than
anything I ever learned like interrup
you but I do want to ask you about that
I mean obviously we around the world
have been watching the pictures of the
the the injuries and the suffering that
people have been going through in in
Gaza you have been there you have been
in the hospitals of people have been
coming in with with injuries who are are
suffering can you describe to us what
life has been like as you and your
colleagues have been trying to work
through the numbers of people who've
been coming in to get
treatment exactly that's what I was
about to actually talk about like um I
had to learn how to prioritize who lives
or dies kind of like who we actually
work on who we use our limited resources
on who like I I hate to say this but
like who deserves to be worked on who
deserves you know like to use the
limited resources and equipment and
instruments and medication that we have
on I also had to learn how um how to you
know like prioritize who to give local
anesthesia like when we're stitching you
know like some patients even like if
available if it's available we have to
prioritize who we give it to like I
personally had to stitch hands of
mothers who just lost their babies who
just lost their children without even
being able to give them local anesthesia
where I was you know stitching their
hands um it was um you know like the
resources part was really horrible there
were no beds like n hospital had like
around 63 beds and you're talking about
a million and a half people who were
like in ra at some point who needed like
Medical Care at a lot of Cas like would
go to Al Kuwait Hospital would actually
also be referred to Anar because Anar is
more like of a kind of bigger and more
like you know the governmental hospital
that had like more um kind of tools and
devices so yeah so um we had to work on
them on the ground um yeah no I want to
ask you I mean you've obviously moved to
Egypt as we mentioned what was it that
made you decide to to leave obviously
your medical training The Limited as you
say training that you had is vitally
important there clearly must have been a
very strong reason for you to to want to
leave
Gaza yeah I never wanted to leave Gaza
and I um it breaks my heart every day um
since I got here um the thing is like my
family already left U because um it just
it it only got um more unsafe being
there and um everybody everything was
just stopped like they couldn't continue
working on anything my um my siblings
could not continue any of their
education or anything like that um I
personally stayed behind behind them and
I was not really planning on leaving at
all it only happened on Monday that was
actually the last day when was working
actually I woke up to the leaflets of
evacuation orders to my house um asking
us to leave and it was just like you
know the only person left from my family
and would I had to like at that point I
had to find I don't know like make a
tent for myself or find a place um for
my only me like U to stay in and it just
kind of like um did not sound very right
to me like um I just I honestly just it
was a mess what what happened so I
really just like went to the border at
11: 11:30 people were there at seven um
and I just left and I I it breaks my
heart
since please forgive me for interrupting
you I am terribly sorry but we are very
grateful to you for being with us and
alir and telling us your story thank you
very much
indeed make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler